index.md, before:

---
layout: home

hero:
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get started
      link: /docs/introduction
    - theme: alt
      text: View examples
      link: /docs/examples

features:
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/realtime.svg
    title: Real-time performance
    details: Blazing fast ASCII conversion powered by an optimized WebGL2 rendering pipeline specifically designed for textmode art.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/agnostic.svg
    title: Framework-agnostic
    details: Apply textmode conversion to any existing &lt;canvas&gt; and &lt;video&gt; context. Compatible with p5.js, Three.js, and much more.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/dependencies.svg
    title: Zero dependencies
    details: Lightweight and self-contained. No external libraries required - just import and start creating.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/crossplatform.svg
    title: Cross-platform
    details: Runs everywhere the web runs - desktop, mobile, tablets. Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/easytouse.svg
    title: Easy integration
    details: Simple and intuitive API designed for quick setup and seamless integration into your projects.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/export.svg
    title: Export anything
    details: Export your creations as TXT, SVG, GIF, video, and image. Perfect for sharing on social media, printing, or integrating into other projects.

---

<HomeCta />

## What is `textmode.js`?

<TextmodeWhatIs>

**textmode.js** brings the art of ASCII and textmode graphics into the modern web. Built for developers from all corners and skill levels of the creative coding world - it's the tool I wished existed when I started exploring textmode art.

### Ready for production, built for creativity

A library designed for building generative art installations, retro games, interactive visualizations, live coding performances, and experimental web experiences. Whether you're prototyping an idea or shipping a production app, textmode.js has you covered.

**Shape the future of textmode graphics.** Your feedback, ideas, and creations help drive development. Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/sjrw8QXNks) to share what you're building, get support, and connect with fellow textmode enthusiasts.

### From zero to textmode in minutes

```javascript
const tm = textmode.create();

tm.draw(() => {
  tm.background(0, 0, 0, 0);
  
  const halfCols = tm.grid.cols / 2;
  const halfRows = tm.grid.rows / 2;
  
  for (let y = -halfRows; y < halfRows; y++) {
    for (let x = -halfCols; x < halfCols; x++) {
      const dist = Math.sqrt(x * x + y * y);
      const wave = Math.sin(dist * 0.2 - tm.frameCount * 0.1);
      
      tm.push();
      tm.translate(x, y, 0);
      tm.char(wave > 0.5 ? '▓' : wave > 0 ? '▒' : '░');
      tm.charColor(0, 150 + wave * 100, 255);
      tm.point();
      tm.pop();
    }
  }
});
```

Simple, powerful, and ready for your wildest ideas.

</TextmodeWhatIs>

<hr />

<FeaturedSketches :count="3" />

<hr />

<Testimonials />

<hr />

<CommunitySupport />

<WhatWillYouCreate />

Commit message:

feat: add title and description to index for improved clarity and SEO

index.md, after:

---
title: textmode.js - Real-time ASCII Art Library for the Web
description: A lightweight, framework-agnostic creative coding library for real-time ASCII and textmode graphics. Build generative art, retro games, live coding visuals, and more with WebGL2-powered performance.
layout: home

hero:
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get started
      link: /docs/introduction
    - theme: alt
      text: View examples
      link: /docs/examples

features:
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/realtime.svg
    title: Real-time performance
    details: Blazing fast ASCII conversion powered by an optimized WebGL2 rendering pipeline specifically designed for textmode art.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/agnostic.svg
    title: Framework-agnostic
    details: Apply textmode conversion to any existing &lt;canvas&gt; and &lt;video&gt; context. Compatible with p5.js, Three.js, and much more.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/dependencies.svg
    title: Zero dependencies
    details: Lightweight and self-contained. No external libraries required - just import and start creating.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/crossplatform.svg
    title: Cross-platform
    details: Runs everywhere the web runs - desktop, mobile, tablets. Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/easytouse.svg
    title: Easy integration
    details: Simple and intuitive API designed for quick setup and seamless integration into your projects.
  - icon: 
      src: /svg/export.svg
    title: Export anything
    details: Export your creations as TXT, SVG, GIF, video, and image. Perfect for sharing on social media, printing, or integrating into other projects.

---

<HomeCta />

## What is `textmode.js`?

<TextmodeWhatIs>

**textmode.js** brings the art of ASCII and textmode graphics into the modern web. Built for developers from all corners and skill levels of the creative coding world - it's the tool I wished existed when I started exploring textmode art.

### Ready for production, built for creativity

A library designed for building generative art installations, retro games, interactive visualizations, live coding performances, and experimental web experiences. Whether you're prototyping an idea or shipping a production app, textmode.js has you covered.

**Shape the future of textmode graphics.** Your feedback, ideas, and creations help drive development. Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/sjrw8QXNks) to share what you're building, get support, and connect with fellow textmode enthusiasts.

### From zero to textmode in minutes

```javascript
const tm = textmode.create();

tm.draw(() => {
  tm.background(0, 0, 0, 0);
  
  const halfCols = tm.grid.cols / 2;
  const halfRows = tm.grid.rows / 2;
  
  for (let y = -halfRows; y < halfRows; y++) {
    for (let x = -halfCols; x < halfCols; x++) {
      const dist = Math.sqrt(x * x + y * y);
      const wave = Math.sin(dist * 0.2 - tm.frameCount * 0.1);
      
      tm.push();
      tm.translate(x, y, 0);
      tm.char(wave > 0.5 ? '▓' : wave > 0 ? '▒' : '░');
      tm.charColor(0, 150 + wave * 100, 255);
      tm.point();
      tm.pop();
    }
  }
});
```

Simple, powerful, and ready for your wildest ideas.

</TextmodeWhatIs>

<hr />

<FeaturedSketches :count="3" />

<hr />

<Testimonials />

<hr />

<CommunitySupport />

<WhatWillYouCreate />
