api/namespaces/layering/interfaces/TextmodeLayerOptions.md, before:

[textmode.js](../../../index.md) / [layering](../index.md) / TextmodeLayerOptions

# Interface: TextmodeLayerOptions

Options for configuring a new TextmodeLayer via [TextmodeLayerManager.add](../classes/TextmodeLayerManager.md#add).

## Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| <a id="blendmode"></a> `blendMode?` | [`TextmodeLayerBlendMode`](../type-aliases/TextmodeLayerBlendMode.md) | The blend mode used when rendering this layer. Default is `'normal'`. |
| <a id="offsetx"></a> `offsetX?` | `number` | The horizontal offset of the layer in pixels. Default is `0`. |
| <a id="offsety"></a> `offsetY?` | `number` | The vertical offset of the layer in pixels. Default is `0`. |
| <a id="opacity"></a> `opacity?` | `number` | The opacity of the layer, between 0 (fully transparent) and 1 (fully opaque). Default is `1`. |
| <a id="rotation"></a> `rotation?` | `number` | The `z` rotation of the layer in degrees around its center. Default is `0`. |
| <a id="visible"></a> `visible?` | `boolean` | Whether the layer is visible. Default is `true`. |

Commit message:

chore: Update API docs to textmode.js v0.8.0

api/namespaces/layering/interfaces/TextmodeLayerOptions.md, after:

[textmode.js](../../../index.md) / [layering](../index.md) / TextmodeLayerOptions

# Interface: TextmodeLayerOptions

Options for configuring a new TextmodeLayer via [TextmodeLayerManager.add](../classes/TextmodeLayerManager.md#add).

## Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| <a id="blendmode"></a> `blendMode?` | [`TextmodeLayerBlendMode`](../type-aliases/TextmodeLayerBlendMode.md) | The blend mode used when rendering this layer. Default is `'normal'`. |
| <a id="fontsize"></a> `fontSize?` | `number` | The font size for the layer's text. Default is `16`. |
| <a id="fontsource"></a> `fontSource?` | `string` \| [`TextmodeFont`](../../loadables/classes/TextmodeFont.md) | Source for the font to use in this layer. Can be a URL/path to a font file, or an existing TextmodeFont instance. |
| <a id="offsetx"></a> `offsetX?` | `number` | The horizontal offset of the layer in pixels. Default is `0`. |
| <a id="offsety"></a> `offsetY?` | `number` | The vertical offset of the layer in pixels. Default is `0`. |
| <a id="opacity"></a> `opacity?` | `number` | The opacity of the layer, between 0 (fully transparent) and 1 (fully opaque). Default is `1`. |
| <a id="rotationz"></a> `rotationZ?` | `number` | The z-rotation of the layer in degrees around its center. Default is `0`. |
| <a id="visible"></a> `visible?` | `boolean` | Whether the layer is visible. Default is `true`. |
