docs/legal/data-protection-policy.md, before:

---
title: Data Protection Policy
description: Data protection policy for textmode.js, including information on data processing, analytics, and payment services.
lastUpdated: false
comment: false
prev: false
next: false
---

# Data Protection Policy

> Diese Seite ist auch auf [Deutsch](./datenschutz) verfügbar.  
> This page is also available in [German](./datenschutz).

## Introduction

This website is a documentation project for the `textmode.js` library, which is a JavaScript library for applying real-time ASCII conversion to any HTML canvas.

This documentation is built with [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/) and is hosted on a Virtual Private Server *(VPS)* provided by Hetzner. Our application runs on a Coolify instance, which manages the necessary services for this application.

As service providers, Hetzner may collect certain technically necessary data *(including IP addresses)* in accordance with their privacy policy.

This website uses Umami for anonymous analytics. Umami is a privacy-friendly, cookie-less analytics solution that anonymizes all collected data and does not track users across websites.

**Related resources:**
- [Hetzner privacy policy](https://www.hetzner.com/legal/privacy-policy)
- [Coolify](https://coolify.io/)
- [Umami](https://umami.is/)

## Analytics

We use Umami, a privacy-focused analytics tool, to collect anonymous usage statistics about our website. This helps us understand how users interact with our documentation and improve the user experience.

Umami does not use cookies and does not collect any personally identifiable information. All data is anonymized and we cannot identify individual users through this analytics tool.

The following anonymous data may be collected:
- Page views and referral sources
- Browser type and device information
- Country of origin (based on anonymized IP)
- Session duration and navigation paths

As Umami does not use cookies and does not collect personal data, consent for this type of analytics is not required under GDPR.

## No User Data Collection (Except as Described Below)

This website is primarily an informational documentation site. Apart from the anonymized analytics described above and the optional features described below, we do not:
- Require user registration or authentication for general use of the site
- Collect any personal information from visitors on our own servers
- Process or store any user-specific data beyond what is technically necessary for hosting
- Use cookies for tracking or personalization purposes

## Comments (giscus / GitHub)

We provide an optional comment section on some pages of this website using **giscus**, a third-party comments widget that integrates with **GitHub**. This feature is entirely voluntary and not required to use the documentation.

When you choose to view or interact with the comment section, the following applies:

- The comments widget is loaded from `giscus.app` and GitHub domains.
- To post, edit, or react to comments, you must be logged in with your GitHub account. Authentication is handled exclusively by GitHub.
- Personal data processed in this context may include your GitHub username, avatar, profile URL, the content of your comments and reactions, and technical data such as IP address and browser information collected by GitHub and giscus.
- Comments and related metadata are stored in our GitHub repository (e.g. as Discussions or Issues), not on our own server infrastructure.

The legal basis for this processing is Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR (your consent) and, where applicable, Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR (our legitimate interest in providing a community discussion feature for our open-source project). Using the website without using the comment function is possible at any time; in that case, no comment-related personal data is processed.

For more information about data processing by GitHub and giscus, please see:

- [GitHub Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement)
- [giscus](https://giscus.app/)

## Payment Services and Financial Support

When you choose to support the project financially, you may use third-party payment services. These services are operated independently and have their own privacy policies and terms of service.

### Third-Party Payment Providers

We offer the following payment options:

**Ko-fi** ([ko-fi.com](https://ko-fi.com))  
When you make a contribution through Ko-fi, you will be redirected to their platform. Ko-fi processes payments and may collect personal information such as your name, email address, and payment details. Please review [Ko-fi's Privacy Policy](https://ko-fi.com/home/privacy) for information about how they handle your data.

**GitHub Sponsors** ([github.com/sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors))  
When you sponsor through GitHub, you will be redirected to GitHub's platform. GitHub processes payments and may collect personal information. Please review [GitHub's Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement) for information about how they handle your data.

**Cryptocurrency (Ethereum & Tezos)**  
For cryptocurrency contributions, you interact directly with blockchain networks. We only provide wallet addresses and do not collect, process, or store any personal information related to cryptocurrency transactions. Blockchain transactions are public and pseudonymous by nature.

### What We Receive

When you make a contribution through Ko-fi or GitHub Sponsors, we may receive basic information such as your username or display name from these platforms. We do not request, collect, or store any additional personal information beyond what these platforms choose to share with us.

For cryptocurrency contributions, we only see the transaction on the public blockchain and cannot identify you unless you choose to contact us separately.

### No Data Storage

We do not store any payment information, credit card details, or financial data on our servers. All payment processing is handled exclusively by the third-party providers mentioned above.

## Your Rights

Under the GDPR, you have various rights regarding the processing of your personal data. In the context of this documentation site, these rights are relevant in particular where third-party services such as Umami (analytics), payment providers or the optional comments feature (giscus / GitHub) process personal data.

For analytics and comment data, you can manage many settings directly in your browser or your GitHub account. For payment-related data, please refer to the respective provider's privacy policy. You may also contact us if you have questions regarding how these services are integrated into this site; we will forward your request to the appropriate provider where necessary.

For any questions about our data practices, please contact us via email at [hello@textmode.art](mailto:hello@textmode.art).

The competent supervisory authority for data protection is: [Landesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit Nordrhein-Westfalen](https://www.ldi.nrw.de/).

## Updates to this Privacy Policy

We reserve the right to update this Privacy Policy as necessary to comply with legal requirements or to reflect changes in our services. The updated Privacy Policy will be effective upon its publication on this website.

Commit message:

docs: Add local storage usage details to data protection policy

docs/legal/data-protection-policy.md, after:

---
title: Data Protection Policy
description: Data protection policy for textmode.js, including information on data processing, analytics, and payment services.
lastUpdated: false
comment: false
prev: false
next: false
---

# Data Protection Policy

> Diese Seite ist auch auf [Deutsch](./datenschutz) verfügbar.  
> This page is also available in [German](./datenschutz).

## Introduction

This website is a documentation project for the `textmode.js` library, which is a JavaScript library for applying real-time ASCII conversion to any HTML canvas.

This documentation is built with [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/) and is hosted on a Virtual Private Server *(VPS)* provided by Hetzner. Our application runs on a Coolify instance, which manages the necessary services for this application.

As service providers, Hetzner may collect certain technically necessary data *(including IP addresses)* in accordance with their privacy policy.

This website uses Umami for anonymous analytics. Umami is a privacy-friendly, cookie-less analytics solution that anonymizes all collected data and does not track users across websites.

**Related resources:**
- [Hetzner privacy policy](https://www.hetzner.com/legal/privacy-policy)
- [Coolify](https://coolify.io/)
- [Umami](https://umami.is/)

## Analytics

We use Umami, a privacy-focused analytics tool, to collect anonymous usage statistics about our website. This helps us understand how users interact with our documentation and improve the user experience.

Umami does not use cookies and does not collect any personally identifiable information. All data is anonymized and we cannot identify individual users through this analytics tool.

The following anonymous data may be collected:
- Page views and referral sources
- Browser type and device information
- Country of origin (based on anonymized IP)
- Session duration and navigation paths

As Umami does not use cookies and does not collect personal data, consent for this type of analytics is not required under GDPR.

## Local Storage

This website uses browser local storage to save non-personal preferences and enhance your user experience. Specifically:

- **Notification preferences**: When you dismiss certain notifications or information banners, your preference is saved locally in your browser to prevent showing the same message repeatedly.

This data:
- Is stored only in your browser's local storage
- Does not contain any personally identifiable information
- Is never transmitted to our servers or any third party
- Can be deleted at any time by clearing your browser's local storage

No consent is required for this type of local storage as it serves only to improve usability and does not track or identify users (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR - legitimate interest).

## No User Data Collection (Except as Described Below)

This website is primarily an informational documentation site. Apart from the anonymized analytics described above, local storage for preferences, and the optional features described below, we do not:
- Require user registration or authentication for general use of the site
- Collect any personal information from visitors on our own servers
- Process or store any user-specific data beyond what is technically necessary for hosting
- Use cookies for tracking or personalization purposes

## Comments (giscus / GitHub)

We provide an optional comment section on some pages of this website using **giscus**, a third-party comments widget that integrates with **GitHub**. This feature is entirely voluntary and not required to use the documentation.

When you choose to view or interact with the comment section, the following applies:

- The comments widget is loaded from `giscus.app` and GitHub domains.
- To post, edit, or react to comments, you must be logged in with your GitHub account. Authentication is handled exclusively by GitHub.
- Personal data processed in this context may include your GitHub username, avatar, profile URL, the content of your comments and reactions, and technical data such as IP address and browser information collected by GitHub and giscus.
- Comments and related metadata are stored in our GitHub repository (e.g. as Discussions or Issues), not on our own server infrastructure.

The legal basis for this processing is Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR (your consent) and, where applicable, Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR (our legitimate interest in providing a community discussion feature for our open-source project). Using the website without using the comment function is possible at any time; in that case, no comment-related personal data is processed.

For more information about data processing by GitHub and giscus, please see:

- [GitHub Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement)
- [giscus](https://giscus.app/)

## Payment Services and Financial Support

When you choose to support the project financially, you may use third-party payment services. These services are operated independently and have their own privacy policies and terms of service.

### Third-Party Payment Providers

We offer the following payment options:

**Ko-fi** ([ko-fi.com](https://ko-fi.com))  
When you make a contribution through Ko-fi, you will be redirected to their platform. Ko-fi processes payments and may collect personal information such as your name, email address, and payment details. Please review [Ko-fi's Privacy Policy](https://ko-fi.com/home/privacy) for information about how they handle your data.

**GitHub Sponsors** ([github.com/sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors))  
When you sponsor through GitHub, you will be redirected to GitHub's platform. GitHub processes payments and may collect personal information. Please review [GitHub's Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement) for information about how they handle your data.

**Cryptocurrency (Ethereum & Tezos)**  
For cryptocurrency contributions, you interact directly with blockchain networks. We only provide wallet addresses and do not collect, process, or store any personal information related to cryptocurrency transactions. Blockchain transactions are public and pseudonymous by nature.

### What We Receive

When you make a contribution through Ko-fi or GitHub Sponsors, we may receive basic information such as your username or display name from these platforms. We do not request, collect, or store any additional personal information beyond what these platforms choose to share with us.

For cryptocurrency contributions, we only see the transaction on the public blockchain and cannot identify you unless you choose to contact us separately.

### No Data Storage

We do not store any payment information, credit card details, or financial data on our servers. All payment processing is handled exclusively by the third-party providers mentioned above.

## Your Rights

Under the GDPR, you have various rights regarding the processing of your personal data. In the context of this documentation site, these rights are relevant in particular where third-party services such as Umami (analytics), payment providers or the optional comments feature (giscus / GitHub) process personal data.

For analytics and comment data, you can manage many settings directly in your browser or your GitHub account. For payment-related data, please refer to the respective provider's privacy policy. You may also contact us if you have questions regarding how these services are integrated into this site; we will forward your request to the appropriate provider where necessary.

For any questions about our data practices, please contact us via email at [hello@textmode.art](mailto:hello@textmode.art).

The competent supervisory authority for data protection is: [Landesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit Nordrhein-Westfalen](https://www.ldi.nrw.de/).

## Updates to this Privacy Policy

We reserve the right to update this Privacy Policy as necessary to comply with legal requirements or to reflect changes in our services. The updated Privacy Policy will be effective upon its publication on this website.
