docs/contributors.md, before:

---
title: Contributors
description: Meet the team behind textmode.js
---

<script setup>
import { VPTeamMembers } from 'vitepress/theme'
import members from '../.vitepress/data/contributors.json'
</script>

# Contributors

`textmode.js` is built with passion and maintained by creative minds who believe in making textmode graphics accessible to everyone.

:::info About this page
This page follows the [**All Contributors**](https://allcontributors.org/) specification to recognize every type of contribution. For a complete list of contribution types and their meanings, scroll down to the "About the emoji Key" section below.
:::

:::tip Help us grow!
We welcome contributions of all sizes! Whether it's fixing a typo, adding a feature, improving documentation, or creating examples - every contribution earns you a place here. Check out our [Contributing Guide](/docs/contributing) to get started.
:::



## Current and past contributors

<VPTeamMembers size="small" :members="members" />

## About the emoji key

This page follows the [**All Contributors**](https://allcontributors.org/) specification to recognize every type of contribution. The emojis indicate the types of contributions each person has made to `textmode.js` and its documentation:

| Emoji | Contribution type | Description |
|:-----:|:------------------|:------------|
| 💻 | Code | Core library code, features, and bug fixes |
| 📖 | Documentation | Documentation pages, API docs, and guides |
| 🐛 | Bug Reports | Identifying and reporting bugs |
| 💡 | Examples | Code examples and demos |
| 🎨 | Design | Visual design, branding, and UI/UX |
| 🤔 | Ideas & Planning | Feature ideas and project planning |
| 👀 | Reviews | Reviewing pull requests and code |
| ⚠️ | Tests | Writing and maintaining tests |
| 🔧 | Tools | Development tools and utilities |
| 🌍 | Translation | Translating documentation |
| 📢 | Talks | Presentations and promoting the project |
| 💬 | Answering Questions | Helping users in issues and discussions |
| 🚇 | Infrastructure | Build tools, CI/CD, and hosting |
| 🚧 | Maintenance | Project maintenance and organization |
| 🎮 | Games & Interactive | Creating games or interactive experiences |
| 🎞️ | Video Tutorials | Creating video content and tutorials |
| 🖼️ | Artwork | ASCII art, textmode graphics, and creative work |
| 🔤 | Fonts | Contributing or creating fonts for use with the library |
| 🎛️ | Shaders | Writing custom GLSL shaders and filters |

For the complete All Contributors specification, visit the [All Contributors Emoji Key](https://allcontributors.org/emoji-key).

Commit message:

docs: Update contributors page description for clarity

docs/contributors.md, after:

---
title: Contributors
description: Meet the contributors who help build and maintain textmode.js and its documentation.
layout: doc
---

<script setup>
import { VPTeamMembers } from 'vitepress/theme'
import members from '../.vitepress/data/contributors.json'
</script>

# Contributors

`textmode.js` is built with passion and maintained by creative minds who believe in making textmode graphics accessible to everyone.

:::info About this page
This page follows the [**All Contributors**](https://allcontributors.org/) specification to recognize every type of contribution. For a complete list of contribution types and their meanings, scroll down to the "About the emoji Key" section below.
:::

:::tip Help us grow!
We welcome contributions of all sizes! Whether it's fixing a typo, adding a feature, improving documentation, or creating examples - every contribution earns you a place here. Check out our [Contributing Guide](/docs/contributing) to get started.
:::



## Current and past contributors

<VPTeamMembers size="small" :members="members" />

## About the emoji key

This page follows the [**All Contributors**](https://allcontributors.org/) specification to recognize every type of contribution. The emojis indicate the types of contributions each person has made to `textmode.js` and its documentation:

| Emoji | Contribution type | Description |
|:-----:|:------------------|:------------|
| 💻 | Code | Core library code, features, and bug fixes |
| 📖 | Documentation | Documentation pages, API docs, and guides |
| 🐛 | Bug Reports | Identifying and reporting bugs |
| 💡 | Examples | Code examples and demos |
| 🎨 | Design | Visual design, branding, and UI/UX |
| 🤔 | Ideas & Planning | Feature ideas and project planning |
| 👀 | Reviews | Reviewing pull requests and code |
| ⚠️ | Tests | Writing and maintaining tests |
| 🔧 | Tools | Development tools and utilities |
| 🌍 | Translation | Translating documentation |
| 📢 | Talks | Presentations and promoting the project |
| 💬 | Answering Questions | Helping users in issues and discussions |
| 🚇 | Infrastructure | Build tools, CI/CD, and hosting |
| 🚧 | Maintenance | Project maintenance and organization |
| 🎮 | Games & Interactive | Creating games or interactive experiences |
| 🎞️ | Video Tutorials | Creating video content and tutorials |
| 🖼️ | Artwork | ASCII art, textmode graphics, and creative work |
| 🔤 | Fonts | Contributing or creating fonts for use with the library |
| 🎛️ | Shaders | Writing custom GLSL shaders and filters |

For the complete All Contributors specification, visit the [All Contributors Emoji Key](https://allcontributors.org/emoji-key).
